[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: In
my last conversation
with Carl Lehrburger,
we looked at evidence
throughout Colorado
and the West that
pegged our ancient
American history
to the presence of cultures
from the Celts to the Sumerians.
Today, we're going to discuss
that plus the Hebrew East
Indian Mesoamerican influences
in our American ancient past.
This is a whole new history.
I loved our last conversation.
It was packed.
I think people probably had
to stop it, go back, look
at the images, go
to the Internet.
This is a full course of study--
>>CARL LEHRBURGER: It is.
>>REGINA: --talking with you.
And now, where we're
going to pick it up,
I just want to
make quick comment.
The work of Ralph Ellis,
who I have interviewed
who also does some
revisionist history,
he speaks quite a bit about
Scota, the Celtic queen
with her roots from Egypt.
And so, in his work, he has
created this evidence base
for the notion that
the Celts were also
connected with the Egyptians.
And I only bring it
up because of where
we're going next, which
is a Celtic cave featuring
Anubis, right, in the
Oklahoma panhandle?
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
And, as a background,
it's a great point
to know that we might think
of the Celts coming over,
or the Phoenicians coming
over, or the Egyptians coming,
but what's likely
that happened is
we had multicultural crews that
spoke many different languages
and had many
different religions.
So the Anubis Cave, which
is located in the Oklahoma
panhandle, not so far from Crack
Cave that we were discussing,
is an instance where
we find not only Celtic
writing but Egyptian imagery--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LEHRBURGER: --to complement
exactly what you're saying.
>>REGINA: --what Anubis
is, and this happens
at a certain time of the day.
>>LEHRBURGER: So
the Anubis Caves
are six caves in sandstone
found in the Oklahoma panhandle.
Diffusionist scholar,
Gloria Farley,
was led there by
a local rancher.
And she noted that there was
a dog-like petroglyph that
had a kind of a stick or a
sceptre coming out of its back,
very akin to exactly the imagery
of the Egyptian God, Anubis,
the Lord of Night,
the God of Death.
And the Anubis Caves
represents, perhaps,
the most definitive
evidence that the Celts
were here and really
reveals insights
into Old World religion
that you don't even
find in the Old World
because they were
destroyed by the Christians.
And we have some of
the Old World Mithraic
traditions, which was a
Persian sun god that became,
later, a part of the Roman
belief system of Mithras,
the slayer of the bull.
What we find, the mythology
and the cosmology of Mithras
and the religion in Oklahoma,
it's quite phenomenal.
>>REGINA: Now, this particular
image in this cave is,
as I recall in
your book, is said
to be illuminated
around sunset each day.
>>LEHRBURGER: Unlike
the Crack Cave, which
is a equinox sunrise alignment,
the many different alignments
in Anubis Cave occur at sunset.
And it's not just one alignment
but multiple alignments.
But the most famous
alignment which
was named by William McGlone and
Phil Leonard who did the most
thorough research on
this as the Silent Opera
because many of the
most amazing alignments
are not just a sun or a
shadow striking a circle.
But you actually see the
shadows moving and telling
a story, almost like--
>>REGINA: I love that
imagery in the book.
>>LEHRBURGER: --silent picture.
Yes, a Silent Opera.
>>REGINA: And it creates
an image of its own.
Depending on the time of day,
it's a whole different image.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, what we're
seeing is it's an art form.
It's the language
of the ancients.
>>REGINA: And tell us
the name of that again,
the word that is used for that.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, these are
called heliolithic animations.
>>REGINA: Heliolithic.
>>LEHRBURGER: It was named at
Anubis Cave the Silent Opera,
but these heliolithic animations
and the archaeoastronomy
that we see encoded
in these rocks
are the language
of the ancients.
And you can readily see why
archaeologists have missed this
for so many decades, looking
down and digging, not really
taking into account the position
of the sun on special days
or how this structure
was built, oriented
towards a particular direction.
And this is what we
as archaeoastronomers
look for because it's
an important part
of the story, an important
part of the language.
Now, at Anubis Cave, the
most remarkable animation,
the Silent Opera, has two
main petroglyphic characters.
One is the sun god who
McGlone and Leonard have
identified as Mithras, the
Persian and later day Roman sun
god.
And the second
character is Anubis,
this Egyptian God of the Dead.
And what we find, as the
sun sets on the equinox
as the sun god goes
into shadow, we
see the dog or Jekyll-like god,
Anubis, illuminated in light
above him, representing that
with the illumination in light
Anubis now carries on
as the Lord of the Night
while Anubis the sun
god goes into shadow.
>>REGINA: It's fascinating.
And it would take such
patient observation.
>>LEHRBURGER: And it's
not just that we're
talking about a
day or a holiday,
but we're talking about a
cosmology of an ancient people.
And when you realize that the
ancient Mithraeums in Europe,
most of them have been
destroyed, and few, if any,
have the type of symbology that
is encoded at Anubis Caves.
It's a remarkable discovery
that we're actually finding out
about an Old World
religion in the New World
because the evidence
has been destroyed.
Some of the other fascinating
aspects of the Anubis Cave
is it's not just the
sun god masculine deity,
but we also see feminine
deities, for example,
the Sheela-na-gig, a popular
feminine deity fertility
goddess is represented
in Anubis Caves
as well as many petroglyphs
representing the sky positions
and the constellations.
So, in addition to the many
archaeoastronomy alignments
that are set for
the equinox sunset,
we have multiple petroglyphs
representing Old World deities.
And, most importantly, we
find extensive Ogham script
that defines and describes
these alignments.
One script talks
about equinox being
equal day and equal night.
And this is a Ogham language
that is read in Celtic.
So it's really telling
us what's going on,
how to prepare for
these celebrations,
and it's clear evidence
that the Celts were here,
left their mark in
stone describing
the most important parts of
their cosmology still encoded
for us to see and learn.
Regrettably, even though
"60 Minutes" and other media
outlets have done stories on
it, and Bill McGlone and Phil
Leonard have done extensive
research published in journals
and their book, "Ancient
American Inscriptions,"
the Anubis Cave is not
given any credibility
by the archaeological community.
And it's shocking to think
that, while every summer we
have scores, if not hundreds,
of archaeologists and graduate
students scouring the American
Four Corners area looking
at Anasazi Ruins and kind of
going over a lot of what's
already been
discovered, you rarely
find any archaeologist at
these handful of Celtic sites.
>>REGINA: What a shame.
What a loss.
>>LEHRBURGER: It's a tragedy.
And, as a result, we still
have this overarching paradigm
that Columbus
discovered America,
and how could the Celts
have possibly gotten
into the Americas?
>>REGINA: Now, as I remember,
it's approximately that site
they're dating back a couple
thousand years anyway--
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right?
>>LEHRBURGER: The dating of
these sites is very difficult.
>>REGINA: Yes
>>LEHRBURGER: But from
both experimental studies
of the patina or dating of
the petroglyphs themselves
and from looking at the
cosmology in the star
patterns represented
in these cases,
we surmise that
the Anubis Cave is
approximately 2,000 years old.
>>REGINA: OK.
And, going on with the Egyptian
theme, what about the Sun
Temple?
I don't know if
that is Egyptian,
but they did have them.
The Sun Temple in Colorado?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, you're
hitting the great sites
in the Ogham corridor, beginning
with Crack Cave in Picture
Canyon, nearby Anubis Cave
in the Oklahoma panhandle,
both being equinox sites.
The Sun Temple in
southeastern Colorado
is a cross-quarter day site.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
>>LEHRBURGER: And it is imagery
>>REGINA: And a
Celtic site, yeah?
>>LEHRBURGER: --related to
the cross-quarter day known
by the Celts as Lughnasa or
the celebration of the sun god,
Lugh.
Lugh was one of the most
popular of the Celtic gods.
And when the Romans captured
and took over the Celts,
there was a statue to Lugh
in almost every cross corner
of the highway
systems of the Celts.
Now, these, of course, all
disappeared and been destroyed.
>>REGINA: And what
did Lugh represent?
>>LEHRBURGER: Lugh is a sun god.
He's known as "Lugh
of the Long Arm."
And the celebration of Lughnasa
is a harvest festival and also
a time of doing the sports.
So what we find
in the Sun Temple
is a very unique alignment
as well as imagery.
And the alignment is the sun
rising on the cross-quarter day
and fitting in a notch
on the horizon created
by a mountain and the horizon.
And it's just on that
cross-quarter day
that the sun, as it
rises, fits right
in the notch if you have
your head positioned
in a pecked circle.
They would peck those circles
probably with metal tools,
and they would have a--
>>REGINA: Just chip
out little dots.
>>LEHRBURGER: Chip out
little dots in the rock.
And there is an
Ogham inscription
that tells the reader
using shoulder and circle
to look toward the
horizon between the hill--
>>REGINA: How genius, to make
sure you're aligned perfectly.
>>LEHRBURGER: So the
book pictures a young boy
who, I believe, was one
of the rancher's kids
putting his head in the circle
and looking toward the horizon.
And then we see
the sun coming up.
And this alignment
has been documented
by keen Scott Monahan, who's
site, archaeoastronomy.com, has
actual videos of this
alignment as well as some
of the imagery of Crack Cave.
So, in addition
to the alignment,
we find, again,
Ogham inscriptions
talking about the
harvest festival,
talking about a time
for summer sports--
again, Ogham that can be
read in a Celtic language.
So, in these three
sites, sunrise equinox
alignment at Crack Cave, the
equinox alignments at Anubis
Cave, and then the cross-quarter
day alignment of Lughnasa
at Sun Temple, we have some of
the greatest examples of proof
that the Celts were
here and made it
to the interior leaving
not only their language
and their imagery but their
cosmology for this generation
and future generations to
learn from if we preserve it.
>>REGINA: And if
we acknowledge it.
[CHUCKLE]
If we preserve it and-- I
mean, as I'm listening to you,
I'm thinking, wow, this brings
up an entirely new industry.
I mean, parents throwing their
kids in the four-wheel drive
and starting to search
these amazing sites.
Now, are most of
them accessible?
If someone's in--
>>LEHRBURGER: No,
they really aren't.
>>REGINA: Oh.
See, now, that's a bummer.
I was thinking--
>>LEHRBURGER: Now, part
of it is that we all
walk a very thin line because we
have to preserve the heritage.
We have to preserve these sites.
So many of the sites,
certainly the ones that
weren't on public
lands, I did my best
not to reveal where they are.
In fact, I've received
a lot of criticism
from archaeologists for even
mentioning some of these sites.
And, although I don't mention
their name or their location,
they're very critical of
me for bringing them up
because they don't want
anyone there to destroy them--
>>REGINA: Well, high praise
to you for doing this.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
Well, it's an important
part of our history.
And we hope that the thrust
of this work and all the work
by diffusionists really is aimed
at preservation, preserving
this for future
generations because,
as extensive as the research
that Bill McGlone and Phil
Leonard did it at
Anubis Caves, there
is more discoveries there.
And until we get
epigraphers, archaeologists,
anthropologists,
archaeoastronomers
to acknowledge the
importance of these sites
and continue the research
of these pioneers,
we are, as you say,
going to continue
to be in the dark
about our own history
and understanding who
was the first explorers,
and what were they doing here?
>>REGINA: Well,
right now, we've just
been talking about the Celts.
And we're about to end our Ogham
trail journey, so to speak.
And now when we get over to the
West, to California and Nevada,
it says here that
that is the largest
repository of ancient
petroglyphs in the world,
is happening between
California and Nevada.
Now, let's talk about that
and some of the cultures
we'll be represented there.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, we're
talking about the Great Basin.
And one thing that moderns
have a hard time grasping
is not only the capabilities
of the ancients--
because, you know,
they're savages--
but the lay of the land.
And, thousands of years ago
when this history was unfolding,
the American West looked very
different than it does now.
Now we have a lot of
desert, like Nevada
is just almost all desert.
But, going back 2,000 years
ago and 3,000 years ago,
a good part, if not most,
of Nevada was lakes--
>>REGINA: Yes.
This is important.
>>LEHRBURGER: --and
the oceans and really
were much more accessible
and much closer to Las Vegas,
for example.
So it was a much more
greener environment.
And--
>>REGINA: There are
petrified forests.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, there are--
>>REGINA: I mean,
green, evergreen.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
there were lakes.
There were forests.
There was an abundance of game.
And, accompanying that,
there was an abundance
of different cultures that
lived in the Great Basin
because, unlike today,
those were great times.
There was a lot of game, and
it was a very great place
for habitation.
So you have many, many
different thousands
of different sites in the
Great Basin that were occupied,
and these ancient cultures
left their petroglyphs.
This would be an important
time to make the point
that, while there are
thousands of petroglyph sites
and, perhaps,
hundreds of thousands
or millions of petroglyphs,
nearly all of these,
we believe, were
done by the ancestors
to the Native Americans.
It's very rare to
come across instances
like we've described with Crack
Cave, Anubis Cave, and the Sun
Temple where we have a very
clear connection to the Old
World through the
writing, or the epigraphy,
or through the symbols
represented in the stone.
So let's be clear
from the outset
that most of the Great
Basin petroglyphs are--
>>REGINA: Are Native American.
>>LEHRBURGER: --from
the Native American.
However--
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about Mojave North.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
Encoded in these
petroglyphs, though,
are some ancient traditions
that some probably
did come from
transpacific cultures.
And I've previously noted
an example of the swastika
as a symbol that it
has come down to some
of the Native American tribes.
Well, this is an ancient,
ancient symbol from India.
So, through diffusion, we
find some of the symbols.
Through diffusion, we find
actual words from Afghanistan,
and Indo-Turkey, and some of
the Native American tribes.
But the clearest example
of a transpacific culture
that left their mark
in stone that I've
come across and
documented in the book
is at a site on the eastern
Sierras in central California
that I call Mojave North.
And I named it that because
it's part of the Mojave Desert,
but that I sought to disguise
its location because the site
is so vulnerable to damage.
Just about every
petroglyph has some damage.
30% of the petroglyphs
have been destroyed.
And it is in dire
need of protection.
And this particular site has
been cited as a typical Great
Basin petroglyph site, that
is, by the archaeologist who
claimed it along with
the Native Americans,
that Mojave North petroglyphs
were created by the ancestors
to the Native Americans.
However, what a colleague,
Dorian Taddei, and myself
have discovered is
that this is probably
the clearest evidence of
a greater Indus Valley
presence in North America.
And we can surmise that they
came to the California coast
and then hiked inland as
part of a mining expedition
because, of course, the gold--
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
Of course.
Which was very necessary
to their culture.
>>LEHRBURGER: Certainly,
these are big expeditions.
And perhaps the
earlier ones were even
accompanied by elephants that
they brought along with them.
>>REGINA: We're going to
get into that in a minute.
>>LEHRBURGER: But Mojave
North is a remarkable site.
We've documented at least
13 different alignments
that occur on the
equinoxes, on the solstices,
on the cross-quarter days.
And we've even documented
some very sophisticated lunar
alignments that were
likely used to predict
the different calendars
of the chakra cycle
and the saros cycle, which were
important to the Indus Valley
people.
And so this all is found in
a very compact, less than one
acre, site.
Unfortunately, there is a
lot of damage to the site.
And most of the
petroglyphs are not
able to even be read
throughout most of the day
because they are
so worn or damaged.
However, the remarkable
aspects of this site
include a cross-quarter
day alignment
that we find a character
very akin to Lugh
or, perhaps, Hercules that
is part of a animation that
documents both the
fertility of the god
on the feminine
cross-quarter days.
That is Samhain, which
has now come down
to us as Halloween or
Imbolc-- I should say,
and Imbolc-- which is the
celebration of the Celtic
goddess Brigid.
But the same image,
this god-like character
that resembles Lugh,
also has a alignment
on the masculine
cross-quarter days,
which is Beltane and Lughnasa.
So the same god-like character
has two different alignments
on it, one representing
the fertility
for the cross-quarter
days of the feminine
and the other
alignment representing
the spiritual
evolution of the deity
on the masculine
cross-quarter days.
So this is among some
of the amazing rock art
and petroglyphs that
were left at this site.
Another, I think, noteworthy
alignment of Mojave North
is a series of concentric
circles on a rock.
And, on the equinox
as the sun comes up,
we have a light dagger or an
image of a serpent in light
that--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I like these images.
Yes.
>>LEHRBURGER: --by a
kind of light and shadow.
And, through the first
hour as the sun comes up,
this light serpent, if you
will, moves across the rock art
panel.
And, as it's open jaws approach
the concentric circles,
it literally encompasses
the inner circle
on the day of the equinox,
representing a serpent
engulfing an egg or a disk.
Now, why this is so important is
because we have the exact same
imagery at The
Great Serpent Mound,
the largest earthwork
in North America,
where we have over 1,000-foot
long serpent three feet high,
20 feet wide.
And what is in the mouth of
this giant earthwork serpent?
A disk.
>>REGINA: And it's
located where?
>>LEHRBURGER: In Ohio.
And--
>>REGINA: Interesting, yes.
>>LEHRBURGER: --at
a different time,
but we have a petroglyphic
image in California.
And then, at the
Serpent Mound, we
have a monumental image
of the same serpent
with a disk in its mouth.
So, again, here we
can begin to see
how, perhaps, diffusion
of these stories and myths
go throughout the Americas.
And this brings up another
very important point
about diffusionism.
And it is encompassed in the
term called hermetic drift.
And the concept
of hermetic drift
is that originally some of
these symbols-- for example,
the swastika-- arrived in
the Americas from Egypt.
But, as time goes on and the
Old World peoples are no longer
here, the ancestors to
the Native Americans
continue using these symbols.
And, even though the
symbols may stay the same,
the concept behind
them begins to drift.
And some of the ancient
meanings may have been altered.
>>REGINA: Well, and I
think a lot of our viewers
are already aware of
the loot, essentially
that was found-- the
Egyptian artifacts-- that
were found in the Grand
Canyon at the turn
of the last century.
So we have a little
understanding
that this was a not very
accessible cave either
where these
artifacts were found.
So somehow these things
were spirited away long ago,
and then they've since
been spirited away
by some of our
esteemed institutions
and are denied their
existence at all.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, that's
part of the great cover-up.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
the great cover-up,
so we know Egyptian
stuff was here.
Now, going again to
the Indus Valley,
what about the Shiva stone?
At full moon
rising, you have lot
of wonderful imagery of this.
Let's talk about that.
And that's Mojave North II?
>>LEHRBURGER: No,
it's the same side.
This is a very compact site.
And we must begin
the story by talking
about what a Shiva linga is.
And this is usually
a representative
of the male power in
the form of a phallus.
But most Shiva
lingas also integrate
the power of the feminine
in the form of a basin.
So, throughout
India, there are--
>>REGINA: Oh, when
you go to-- yes.
>>LEHRBURGER:
--tens of thousands
of Shiva lingas everywhere.
>>REGINA: And, in the
afternoon, they do the rights,
and the milk pouring in,
and it's quite a ceremony.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, in
the center of Mojave North
is a stone complex that is very
akin to a giant Shiva linga.
It has a very warm basin in it.
And it is in a prominent place.
It actually has a
rock in front of it
that could actually be
visualized as being testicles.
It is so obvious that
nobody's ever really seen it
until Dorian Taddei, about five
or six years ago, noted it.
And I concur that
there's a central Shiva
linga at this site surrounded by
numerous different petroglyphic
panels that some of them
deal with these alignments,
but others seem to be maps or,
perhaps, alchemetical formulas.
So there's a huge--
>>REGINA: Is there any
script accompanying this?
>>LEHRBURGER: There are scripts,
but they're very controversial.
Barry Fell waded in on
this particular site,
claiming that one of the
scripts was Arabic Kufic.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LEHRBURGER: I've
kind of researched that
and described in the book.
And I believe this is where
one of the mistakes Barry made.
First of all, he
didn't visit the site,
and he was relying on
drawings and photographs
from other researchers.
And he was taking
different photographs
and putting them
into a composite.
So I seriously doubt that the
main epigraphy at the site
is Kufic.
Dorian Taddei, a
co-collaborator,
has researched it and claims
that it's ancient Samaritan.
That is, the Samaritan
of the Northern Kingdom--
>>REGINA: And we can
see the images of this.
>>LEHRBURGER:
However, this has been
disputed by Samaritan scholars.
However, the Samaritan
scholars, for the most part,
are not familiar with this
Proto-Hebrew non-block
lettering.
So I still think there is a very
good indication that, in fact,
this is ancient Samaritan.
But this really
encourages us to note that
without professional
archaeologists,
epigraphers,
and anthropologists who
are willing to come,
willing to look at,
willing to research,
willing to say what it is
and what it isn't, we're
not going to be able to
conclusively say what it is.
So part of the new history
for America is calling forth
fair-minded evaluation of these
sites that seem to show the Old
World peoples from both the
Atlantic and the Pacific
were here.
And, until we can
get the professionals
to take the blinders
off and to have
a fair-minded
investigation, they're
going to continue to dispute
the Old World origins
of these sites.
>>REGINA: Well,
and they're going
to have problems with things
like depictions of elephants.
So let's go back to
that image for a moment.
So we touched on it
for just a moment.
How do you suppose
elephants landed in America?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well--
>>REGINA: That's
quite a journey.
>>LEHRBURGER: The motif
of an elephant in America
is not unique to this
particular discussion.
And Gunnar Thompson
and many others
have noted the elephant
motif in Central America
in Mayan sculptures.
But at a site known as
Crimes Point, Nevada,
which is certainly one of
the older petroglyphic sites
in North America going back
at least 5,000, or 6,000,
or 7,000 years ago, we
find a very worn imagery.
And one of these images is
a elephant with a rider.
Now, the elephant is
not depicted with tusks,
so we can surmise that
it's a Indian elephant, not
a elephant from Africa.
But it begs the question, what
were elephants doing here,
and who drew the petroglyphs?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LEHRBURGER: So our theory
is that these ancient miners
from Indus Valley or
Indo-Turkey-- what is now
Afghanistan and Turkey-- they
arrived on the California coast
as part of mining expeditions.
And they needed elephants
as part of their entourage
to do the heavy lifting.
This goes back to the
story of the Columbus ships
and how relatively small
and primitive they were.
>>REGINA: These required
a veritable ark.
>>LEHRBURGER: That's correct.
These ancient ships, they
were not little, dinky ships
that held 30 or 40 people.
No, they have
hundreds of people.
And these ships from the
East were noted as recently
by Marco Polo as being able
to carry hundreds of people.
But, certainly, these
mining expedition ships
that used the ocean currents
to arrive in America
probably timed with lunar
cycles, and with the equinoxes,
and the solstices
for their journey
incorporated giant
expeditions and giant ships
and probably included some
elephants in those expeditions.
>>REGINA: And the structures
in the Indus Valley date back,
I think, reasonably
about 10,000 years?
>>LEHRBURGER: They go way back.
>>REGINA: Now, how
far back do you
think their travels may
have dated, in terms of some
of what we're seeing here?
You said maybe several
thousand years.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, I--
>>REGINA: And I
know it's tricky.
Dating is tricky.
>>LEHRBURGER: Dating
these objects is probably
the most controversial area
of diffusionist research.
And, again--
>>REGINA: But is it possible
it's several, several thousand
years?
>>LEHRBURGER: Oh, many.
I think that the imagery
that we see in Mojave North
is at least 1,000, if not 2,000,
years before the imagery we
see at Crack Cave
and Anubis Caves,
which would put it back at
least 3,000 or 4,000 years.
So, until we really have more
scientific dating methods,
and until we really
bring in professionals
to debate, discover,
and investigate,
we're really not going to
be able to pin it down.
But, clearly, these are
many, 3,000, 4,000 years
before Columbus.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, we're going to the Red
Canyon and the Standing Man
petroglyph now, which is very
similar to the Pathfinder
glyphs that are in Colorado.
So tell us about what
we're seeing here.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, this
particular petroglyph
comes from Little Petroglyph
Canyon in California,
in the Great Basin
of California.
And it is not
necessarily-- we don't
want to say it's necessarily
from the Old World.
It's quite likely and probable
that most of the glyphs
and the extensive petroglyphs
in Little Petroglyph Canyon
are all from the ancestors
to the Native Americans.
But what we do see in
some of the imagery
is similarities to symbols that
we do find in the Old World
and, perhaps, some
of the cosmologies
that we find in the Old World.
And one of these is a
petroglyph of a very large
anthropomorphic man, a
stick-like character,
that I would describe as
very similar to da Vinci's
divine man.
He's standing with his
arms stretched out.
And I was fortunate
enough to be there
at noon on an equinox
looking at this
and noticed that the
outstretched arms were holding
a triangle of light
that came to the point
of the anthropomorph's head.
So literally on the equinox
what the symbology is telling
us is that the perfect
balance of holding
that triangle, that
symbol of the divine,
kind of the outstretched
arms like this.
And it was so precise that
the fingers themselves
were counting marks, so
that you could actually,
again, like many of
these ancient calendars--
>>REGINA: Count the days.
>>LEHRBURGER: --count the days.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LEHRBURGER: Now, when I was
there and looking at this,
I only noticed this
particular petroglyph,
which was the masculine deity.
But when I got back home,
and I looked at my film
and photographs, I was able to
see behind it a feminine glyph
that was very
descriptive of fertility
and of almost
insemination, very similar
to what we see at the Pathfinder
site with a dagger of light
inseminating a first mother.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LEHRBURGER: And we see
that same kind of imagery.
And this reinforces the
notion of the divine feminine
as well as the
divine masculine that
was included and
integrated into whether it
be the ancient Native
Americans or the ancients
who came from across the
Pacific and Atlantic.
>>REGINA: Well, certainly one
of the more revered glyphs,
definitely in the southwestern
part of the United States--
you can find them everywhere
in Sedona-- is Kokopelli.
Let's talk about the
story of Kokopelli.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
as you point out,
the Kokopelli is one of
the most common glyphs
throughout certainly
the Great Basin.
And it has been adopted
by the Native Americans
as, I guess you would
say, a fertility glyph,
as a fertility deity that is
represented by what people
think is a flute is often
represented as a hunchback
man or a hunchback grasshopper
with a sack on its back.
And the Native
American myths talk
about Kokopelli
coming to the tribe,
and spreading seeds, and
playing music, and getting
the women pregnant--
>>REGINA: Where
did he come from?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, we
today can't say for sure
where Kokopelli comes from.
>>REGINA: But like Quetzalcoatl
and other deified beings,
so to speak, they came
from supposedly elsewhere
and seeded them-- no pun
intended-- with knowledge seeds
and so forth, right?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
Dennis Matlock,
in his book, "India
Once Ruled America,"
he notes the
similarity of Kokopelli
with a fertility god
of India, Kubera,
and their very similar aspects.
And he makes the connection
between the Indus Valley god
and coming to America.
My colleague, Dorian
Taddei, makes the point
that what is considered to
be a flute by just about
everyone-- that Kokopelli
is playing a flute--
is, in fact, a blowpipe used to
heat up fires for metallurgy.
And so he talks about
Kokopelli as being
kind of the god of the miners.
What we can say is
consistent with the notion
of hermetic drift where we
have a symbol, a petroglyph,
or a story show up
as it's repeated
from generation to generation.
The symbol may remain the same.
However, the understanding
of what it originally
was is not-- I believe that
the Kokopelli imagery is really
the story of the
sun god as he makes
his journey around the world.
So we all have a different
take on Kokopelli.
Many diffusionists could argue
that it comes from India,
but it's not really something
we can document as clearly as we
can, for example, a
symbol like the swastika
or the many symbols from
Mesoamerica and the Mayans
that seem to have an
origin in Asia and China.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
And I'm going to get to that
toward the end of this hour,
as a matter of fact.
But, first, let's
go to the Midwest,
and we want to go
to Monks Mound.
>>LEHRBURGER: Oh.
>>REGINA: This is
quite anomalous.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
And this is--
>>REGINA: I mean,
this is massive.
>>LEHRBURGER: More
material than it took
to build the Great Pyramid.
>>REGINA: And, yet, most
no one's heard of it.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, again,
it's something that's
a mystery about our history.
I think we can talk
about how America has
become a historical Society.
It's like we're
so in the present,
and we're so into making
money and advancing that we
kind of have lost sight of--
>>REGINA: You'd think this
would be a major tourist site.
>>LEHRBURGER: And it really
is, relatively speaking,
to some of the history.
But I don't think we
want to suggest that
and Old World
culture built that.
>>REGINA: No.
I'm just saying what is this?
>>LEHRBURGER: This
is a monument that
is the scope of the size
of some of the largest
pyramids from Israel
America and from Egypt.
It reinforces the notion
of the organization
of a highly advanced
civilization that
was able to put together
not only the labor force
but have the building
skills to construct
something so significant
that still is here today.
We do think that
the top of the mound
had an archaeoastronomical
alignment associated with it.
There's still posts there.
But these all go back to the
mysteries of our history.
This is probably one of the
center of a civilization.
And it still stands
today for us to explore.
>>REGINA: What are some of
the artifacts surrounding
that area, to give us some hint?
>>LEHRBURGER: These
are the mount people.
And for many, many
generations and
for many, many different
thousands of years,
we have different
generations of mound builders
that have built mounds and
had a significant culture
probably based on
agriculture that
spread out from the
Mississippi through
the different tributaries.
So this is just part of
the remaining landscape
of our ancestors
in America, noting
that when this was built, there
was nothing like it in Europe.
It was relatively
primitive in Europe
compared to what was
going on in the New World.
>>REGINA: And, back in that
part of the United States
in the Midwest, there are a lot
of different kinds of mounds,
as well throughout.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Also,
there's some belief
that the ancient Hebrews built
some of the mounds in Ohio.
Is that correct?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, there is--
>>REGINA: They discovered a
Ten Commandments stone, right?
>>LEHRBURGER: There
are indications
of a Hebrew presence
in the Midwest,
but I don't think anyone would
ascribe the Hebrews to building
these mounds.
I would say that these were
really the native people who
built most of these amounts.
But the question is, who
built the original ones,
and what influence,
if any, do we
have from Old World cultures?
>>REGINA: These are
built throughout Russia
and many other places.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
It's not just here.
>>REGINA: No.
Dolmens.
>>LEHRBURGER: So
when Cyrus Thomas,
who was one of the
first researchers
for the Smithsonian, and
undertook a exhaustive study
of the mounds under the
management of John Wesley
Powell-- who was really
the first director
of the Smithsonian
at that time--
both Powell and Thomas
strongly believed
that all the mounds were
built by Native Americans.
And they both went on to
say in their own words that,
even though artifacts
of European origin
were found in the mounds,
that they were not
going to talk about
them or address them.
So we really find the
beginning of a cover-up
as early as the birth
of the Smithsonian.
And--
>>REGINA: That's where
I wanted to go next,
is John Wesley-- we
started out with Columbus,
but John Wesley Powell has his
part in obscuring the story,
as well.
>>LEHRBURGER: He certainly does.
And, up to the point of
Thomas and John Wesley Powell,
because of the interest
in history by Americans,
by the farmers, by the
historical societies,
by the colonists, there
was a strong belief
that Old World peoples had
populated the Americas.
And this was right up to the
time of Thomas Jefferson who
instructed Lewis and Clark to
look for the remnants of Prince
Madoc, the Welsh prince
who was supposed to have
come to America in the 1100s.
And, subsequently,
there has been
found evidence of what could
be some of his fortifications.
But Thomas Jefferson as well
as other colonists strongly
believed that the
history of America
included people
coming from Europe.
But, with the proclamation
by Cyrus Thomas
that of these European
artifacts found in the mounds,
we will not talk of
them, ever since then,
the archaeological
paradigm has been
that all the mounds were
built by Native Americans, end
of story.
I think that there are
influences of the Old World
peoples that out of these
mounds have come relics that
demonstrate a connection,
whether it be trade
or whether it be actual
the origins of these.
And this is part of that story.
And it includes
some artifacts that
are attributed to the Hebrews,
including a decalogue stone
that has the Ten Commandments
on it as an artifact
and has a picture of what
is claimed to be Moses.
But, again, it's very
hard to verify these
as being legitimate
at this time.
And, until we get more
researchers involved,
and interested, and excited,
and willing to explore,
it's going to be very
much of a mystery
of how much influence Old
World cultures had on the mound
builders.
>>REGINA: Well, we're
not done yet, OK?
Just a couple more here.
Speaking of the
Hebrews-- I mean there
was evidence in the
Bible, you wrote,
that as of almost
1,000 years BC,
they had the ability
to also navigate
the waters of the world.
They had ships.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well--
>>REGINA: So there
is this evidence
sprinkled throughout
the United States.
And one of them that you
write about in the book
is a Roman-Jewish society
near Tucson, Arizona.
>>LEHRBURGER: Isn't
that incredible?
>>REGINA: Yeah, talk
about that a little bit.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, let's
go back a little bit.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>LEHRBURGER: And,
although scant,
there is evidence that the
Hebrews were in America.
And it's quite likely
that they were here
at different periods of time.
We know this from some
Hebrew coins that were found.
And we know it from
some alleged artifacts
from the mound building era.
But what I discovered the
most significant evidence
of the Hebrews is a location
in New Mexico, south
of Albuquerque, known
as Hidden Mountain.
And, at Hidden Mountain on
a very, very large stone,
we have the Ten
Commandments written out
in a Proto-Hebrew script.
That is before the block
Hebrew language was developed.
And it is a recitation
of the Ten Commandments.
And we also have other
Hebrew writing on this site.
And, wow, like
every artifact that
seems to have a beginning
with Old World peoples,
this is fiercely debated
by the archaeal priesthood
in the archaeological community
who claim that the Hidden
Mountain decalogue
stone was a hoax created
in the last couple
hundred years.
But there's compelling
evidence to suggest
that this is a legitimate
Hebrew site, a legitimate Hebrew
artifact that,
based on some star
charts on the
site, that could be
aligned with a specific date.
This goes at least 1,500 years.
>>REGINA: OK.
And they say the one in
Tucson may be 1,000 years?
>>LEHRBURGER: No.
>>REGINA: No?
What we find is south of Hidden
Mountain in southern Arizona
near Tucson around the
beginning of the 20th century,
32 artifacts were dug
out of the desert sand.
And these were
religious artifacts.
But, most notably, they
were large lead crosses
that were inscribed
in Latin as well as
imageries from the Bible.
And the Latin, although
not that well constructed,
was easily read.
And the story that
emerges from these crosses
is the voyage of a group
of Hebrews around 765
AD coming from Europe.
They were Roman citizens.
And they don't describe how
they got here or why they came,
but we are presuming they
were escaping persecution
or, perhaps, looking to
colonize a community in an area.
Quite likely, they sailed to the
Americas via the Gulf of Mexico
and up the Rio Grande.
And, according to
the Latin writing,
the history of the colony of
Calalus began at around 765.
They record the different
kings that ruled it,
including Israel I, Israel II.
And the writing has Hebrew
writing in it, Hebrew symbols.
But what's so phenomenal
about the writing
itself is that it's a
blend of early Christianity
with Hebrew influences.
So, in addition to
the large crosses that
are inscribed in Latin, we
have religious implements
that were used in ceremonies.
And they're quite
phenomenally done.
The colony seems to have
ceased to exist around 900 AD.
And the story that is
written on these crosses
tells of the war
between the natives
and between the colonists
that go back and forth.
And, finally at the end, the
natives get the upper hand.
And the individual who
is writing the story down
is talking about the
end of the Calalus
society, the end of the
community and kind of bemoaning
that he hasn't recorded it
well enough because there
was so much going on.
>>REGINA: --he left what he did.
>>LEHRBURGER: He did.
Now, these artifacts do exist.
They are stored in a museum.
They are not on display.
I was able to view them.
And, like every artifact,
they're very controversial.
Most archaeologists that
are familiar with them
and certainly the archael
archaeo-priesthood
thinks they were
fakes done by locals.
Most diffusionists who
have looked at them
believe that they
were legitimate
and they were actually
a Roman-Jewish colony.
I had an opportunity to
examine the artifacts.
I'm not a expert in the
metallurgy or anything,
but I would say
that they certainly
seem to be consistent with
something of that era.
And, again, it really
points to the need
of involving a
professional epigraphers,
or professional archaeologists,
anthropologist to settle
the debate of its legitimacy.
I write in the book that
this is a legitimate series
of artifacts that demonstrated
that the Romans were here
in the New World
right up to 900 AD.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now, we're about out of time.
We never even got to the
Asian artistic motives
in Mesoamerica.
But, for anybody that wants
to take a look at that,
I did do an interview with
Raymond Tarpey on some of that.
So you can look at at least
the linguistic connections
that support that, as well.
There's another person that's
digging around as you are.
>>LEHRBURGER: And I just want
to note that Gunnar Thompson has
written extensively
about these symbols
that he says comes right around
between 200 BC up to about 200
AD.
Many different symbols
coming from Asia
found their way into
the Central America
and into the Mayan
culture, specifically
like the vision serpent
is a great example of one.
So many--
>>REGINA: It's out there.
>>LEHRBURGER: --have
documented this, as has--
I write about Ganapati Sthapati
a Tamil temple builder who
believes that the Mayan
civilization was actually
founded by Maaya, M-A-A-Y-A,
who was a historical figure from
India.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now, are you working
on another book?
I mean, this is taking
you a long time to create.
And it's quite a body.
I think a lot of
our people watching
this are going to be purchasing
this book and, if not
going on field trips,
at least in the mind.
You've opened up a lot
or new doorways for us.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, thank you.
My passion these days
is renewable energy.
So I continue to work
in that, professionally.
One of the great things
about writing the book,
and giving little talks, and
having interviews like this
is being contacted by
people with their stories,
and their artifacts,
and their references.
And we've got to make the
point that no one person can
write a new history of America.
And, as much work
as I put into it,
most of the
references in the book
come from previous researchers.
So I stand on the shoulders
of those who came before me.
My hope in writing
the book was really
to break through the paradigm
that all diffusionists have
really tried to do
beginning with debunking
the myth of Columbus
and really pointing
to a new history of America
as an important aspect
of the evolving
American culture.
>>REGINA: Thank you
for your dedication
and your persistence.
>>LEHRBURGER: It's
been so much fun.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: Well, as
you can imagine,
we've barely scratched the
surface of Carl's profound work
and, again, standing on the
shoulders of others, as well.
To dig deeper into
America's true history,
you can pick up a copy
of his book, "Secrets
of Ancient America"
at major booksellers.
Along this line of thinking, you
might also enjoy my interview
with Richard Dewhurst
on the subject
of ancient giants in America.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]